the Israeli military assault on Gaza in
response to the October 7th attacks by
Hamas has the highest rate of death of
any conflict of the 21st
century most of the deaths from both
events have been civilians but Israel
remains steadfast in its
[Music]
mission
but can Hamas really be eliminated and
with Worldwide calls for an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire what are Israel's
chances of
Victory tensions have grown over the
scope of Israel's military campaign and
the need for a lasting solution this can
only come through a regional approach
that includes a pathway to a Palestinian
state yet prime minister Netanyahu has
openly defied the US with no road map to
peace the conflict has has already
escalated with fears of a wider Middle
East
War despite accusations of breaking
international law and committing
genocide which Israel says are
profoundly distorted Mr Netanyahu
refuses to back
down in its mission to eliminate Hamas
has Israel set itself an unobtainable
[Music]
goal months since the the conflict
erupted Israel whose Army far out strips
hamas's military capabilities is still
facing resistance in
Gaza before October 7th hamas's armed
Wing was thought to have up to 30,000
Fighters the Israel Defense Forces claim
they have killed almost a third of them
and estimates 16,000 Hamas Fighters are
wounded US Agencies think the figure is
lower up to
11,700 and many could return to battle
if those figures are accurate it would
amount to a significant reduction in
capabilities we put them to Hamas which
rejects the figures if what the
occupation says is true how does it
explain the Kasam brigades continuing to
operate with such force and in all areas
of the Gaza Strip it is certain that the
casam briat is able and ready to
continue defending our people in this
war as long as the occupation aggression
on Gaza continues
former Israeli colonal Marie Eis who
once worked as a media adviser for the
PM's liud party gives her assessment of
Israel's military campaign the
commanders have been killed cash a of
weapons have been found that doesn't
mean that we've killed every single
terrorist we are systematically blowing
up the underground Subterranean Terror
system but some military analysts are
more skeptical about the level of damage
to Hamas they could fairly easily
Recruit new Fighters
um so that's probably not the most
important metric that we're looking at
in this the tunnel network is a lot
larger than um than previously estimated
so destroying or neutralizing the
tunnels is uh is is is where you might
describe it as uh um there's still a
long way to go for the Israelis
initially they started off and they were
blowing up the shafts of the tunnel to
try and stop people popping out of them
but because there are so many shafts
linking into the network then that's
relatively futile
so you go down and blow up the whole
tunnel but then that could there could
be um hostages down there so uh it's
really difficult job either way it's a
critical question for Israel Med
is
Hamas is one of two dominant political
groups the other is the more secular fat
which dominates the Palestinian
Authority governing in the West Bank
Hamas won the elections in 2006 ejecting
the PA from Gaza by force the following
year and they have governed there ever
since the PA are seen by many as corrupt
and collaborators in Israeli
occupation under their governance Jewish
settlements in the West Bank deemed
illegal under international law have
drastically increased in numbers
although the PA has publicly condemned
this it has still fueled anger among
Palestinians backing for Hamas seems to
be growing according to a poll of
Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza
from late
2023 it suggests support for Hamas
doubled during the fourth quarter of
2023 from 22% to 43% still less than
half of Palestinians but outstripping
their longtime Rivals fat the rise in
support for Hamas comes almost entirely
from participants in the West Bank 72%
of respondents overall agree with Hamas
decision to launch an offensive on
October
7th and the poll suggests 63% support
armed struggle as the best means of
ending Israeli occupation again the
majority of this support comes from
participants in the West
Bank the polling organization say that
support for Hamas usually Rises
temporarily during or immediately after
a war academic and critic of Israel Dr
Brahim frat gives his view of
Palestinian support for Hamas they are
living with no hope with no future and
Hamas gave them the the alternative
which is through confrontation and
through Revolution that would bring to
them a different approach on that level
so Hamas enjoys the largest support not
only in Palestine but in the entire Arab
and Muslim world we don't have data to
verify support for Hamas regionally but
there are also many Arabs who oppose
them hundreds of Palestinian activists
took part in a rare online event at the
start of 2022 criticizing Hamas
governance of the Gaza STP where under
Israeli blockade people were already
living under dire conditions and there
was high unemployment
[Music]
Hamas says it's engaged an armed
struggle against Israel to end
occupation and create a Palestinian
State they are considered a terrorist
group by much of the West with many
pointing out its leaders still call for
Israel's destruction but a resistance
movement in parts of the Arab W Hamas
agenda is limited within the the
Palestinian agenda so it doesn't have a
global message that uh Advocates
religion and Islam for the world or for
other countries so it's a it's a
National Liberation movement that limits
its objectives its agenda to the end of
occupation and establishment of a
Palestinian State they started carrying
out attacks mostly targeting Israeli
soldiers in
1989 but after 29 Palestinian
worshippers were killed by an Israeli
settler in 1994 at Al ibrahimi mosque
also known as the cave of Patriarchs
Hamas upped the violence starting a
campaign of suicide attacks targeting
civilians over the following three
decades the levels of violence from both
sides got progressively
worse and the failure of peace talks
which had once looked promising
continued to have a defining impact
there is another context to 7 of October
and again none of this is to justify
atrocities but clear that is a context
in which Gaza has been under U Israeli
blockade um since Hamas took over the
strip in 2007 it is's a context in which
Israel's occupation remains entrenched
including the West Bank where Israel has
been consolidating what the European
Union has called a one state reality of
uh inequality and uh Perpetual conflict
which many human rights organizations
refer to as a part
Israel says that the blockade is
necessary because of the threat from
Hamas however to many Palestinians the
occupation renew the Grievances and
observers argue it could reenergize
resistance a concern expressed by a
Palestinian psychologist who grew up in
Gaza as a psychologist I would say that
I'm I'm sure there is a lot of these
kids want to revenge for the death of
their parents I'm sure you know they
they want to revenge for you know their
siblings who been killed and with this a
aties that has been happening in in Gaza
nowadays I don't know how many how many
um you know Fighters Israel made um that
supports Hamas now a wori also voiced by
the Irish foreign minister who
reportedly told the Israeli president on
a recent trip to Israel what you are
doing is creating fertile ground for
more extreme views to grow how worried
are Israelis about the war in
influencing
radicalization they are already so
radicalized our response in that sense
is first and foremost to try to
eliminate the capabilities the ideology
is already there it won't make the
ideology worse than it already is they
did that on October 7th and they have
said that they want to do it
again Israel have never been as explicit
as they are now about their intention to
eliminate Hamas yet earlier experiences
highlight how challenging this is Hamas
is not just a military movement nor is
it just a political movement it is an
ideology that ideology will not be
eradicated certainly not through Israeli
Force of Arms during the second intifada
from 2000 to 2005 and Uprising following
the failure to establish a Palestinian
State Israel killed leader isma
abushanab and Hamas founder shikh Ahmed
yin and then his replacement abdulaziz
RTI but Hamas continued to gain support
from many
Palestinians in 2014 a war erupted in
the Gaza Strip Israel claimed to have
dealt a significant blow to
Hamas however ex Israeli soldier Beni
Sanders who fought in the War claims it
ended up strengthening Hamas I know for
a fact that many civilians were killed
in the area that I was
in and uh I was left uh after that
experience kind of uh questioning what
it what it all accomplished did it
actually strike Hamas did it actually
weaken them did it actually prevent uh
the risk of that happening again and
what I realized in the Years afterwards
was that no it didn't uh not only that
uh Hamas got
[Applause]
stronger
we don't know if Israel will succeed in
its Mission but even its allies argue
that a lasting settlement between
Israelis and Palestinians is the only
way to guarantee peace in the future
some suggest it could be the best way to
weaken Hamas if one truly wants to
marginalize and to weaken
Hamas
then the only way that can happen is
through the creation of a viable or
political trap but Israel shocked by the
brutality of the October 7th attacks
remain firm in continuing to prevent a
Palestinian State and are defiant on
eliminating Hamas I just can't see a
victory day for the Israelis so they
they can uh massively degrade Hamas but
the key thing is then how do you prevent
Hamas reemerging in the sort of afterm
of the major military operation so when
I look at the day after I think that is
Israel will very much control the
continuation of the campaign to
eliminate Hamas capabilities they're
always going to show something but the
bulk of them the threat of them that
we're going to be able to eliminate
under Mr Netanyahu who leads the most
rightwing government in Israel's history
Israel plans to retain security control
for the foreseeable
future as amounting to long-term
occupation supported by ministers and
parliamentarians in Benjamin netanyahu's
coalition government some of them openly
say they want to see Jewish settlements
in Gaza but this post-war vision is not
one that is endorsed by the US following
pressure from the Biden Administration
for a day after scenario defense
minister yuav Gallant outlined a plan
critically it satisfied the US by ruling
out civilian settlements in Gaza prime
minister Netanyahu has since confirmed
local officials would run gaza's civil
Affairs but has not said he'd allow the
Palestinian Authority to
return Israel would retain complete
freedom to conduct military operations
there how post-war Gaza is governed
remains an open question as does the
prospect of a lasting peace deal but
without an alternative to the status quo
there is a real risk of more extreme
exem violence in the
future